Hi everyone.
So let's see about that data type conversion.
With the help of this not as type mater so we have taken this and I did not data not see as we filed
for this particular video.
So let me just executed.
And let's see what is the data type of individual caller.
So we are only learning data from attributes and amateur video that we can use this not in matter to
declare individual column related information.
So you can see the majority of column in our case it's the object type of column and demeaning all an
integer 64 bit so data six there are six column which is in danger Miss column and remaining all the
object based column.
Now we haven't given any kind of information while leading this particular fight that bind us while
reading this particular file you create this fuss over a column let's say eight treated like I in danger
and then another column like a world class treated like an object.
So as per the binders best ability I would say binders as assigned is based data type.
What it can do individual column of other data every object.
But it may happen that we are not satisfied with that.
So let's say binders is any help providing some more data.
So let's talk about the very same point where let's say sex.
So we already know that the sex column has just the two sets of value.
Either it will be a male or a female.
So it doesn't make sense to put this particular column in The Object data type rather than that we can
make it like a category kind of data type so category is nothing but when you want to encode a very
lesser number of unique values that are really well in your particular features sorta column.
In that case you have to use this category kind of call.
Now while reading this particular file and put it into memory it has occupied three point seven plus
megabytes of memory.
So let's see Vi converting from object the sex column when we convert it into category kind of data
type whether we can save some space or not.
So let's first grab the sex column
and let me just displayed first
Yeah we have a linear object not a data object.
So now you can see this mean mean and at the end of this city's data frame cities object we avoid data
tables like an object.
So we want to make this particular object as a category kind of data type.
OK so far that we are going to use this as data matter and insight that we are going to apply this category.
And let's see now if you observe here for the display purpose and for the visualization there is no
change but in memory the way data has been presented earlier as object type.
Now it has been presented as a date at a later category.
So we just the two categories like a male and a female.
So we can call it easily like a male is equal to zero or a female is equal to kind of 1 so that is the
idea behind it in case of me.
It was already occupying four character space and in case of female it is occupying the six character
space.
Now instead of the video just map those unique sets of value into one character space.
So that's how we can reduce the space in our memory might still be balancing that how much memory will
occupy.
And we don't even assign it over original data.
So I have to assign this C.D. to my what is it sex column.
Okay and let me see.
Sex.
OK.
Now let me just executed.
And if you just apply let's say it for game.
So now you can see here it was occupying three point seven plus megabytes of space in a memory.
Now it is occupying three point five plus megabytes of memory.
OK so you can see we'll reduce this amount of space required to represent the data by just converting
our sex column from Object to what captivity.
And if you observe this particular sex column information that earlier it was an object.
Now it's OK.
OK let's try it done another one.
So let's say we have a marital status also.
So marital status is also one less of number of unique values that are relevant.
So I'm just copying the same quarter Leah and Lexie after that we can reduce it or not.
So let's see magic done.
I'm just going to select this medical status and I'm just re signing after conversion to a little additional
color and let's drive it this fraud in flogging.
Now you can see this marital status also become category and our memory uses also got reduced and it
is reproducing so earlier.
V O nine object column.
Now Viola two category column and a seven object column because V O convert it to object column into
category column and amount of space required in a memory also got continuously going down from three
point seven in me space to three point five to three point three.
So very very you feel that that is a list number of unique may lose out available in your data set.
So in that case you can use such a kind of category data type and convert those data typing to get any.
So this is about how you can convert into data instead of that you can convert something into a digital
so you can convert it to float also.
So as of now it doesn't make sense to convert any other thing into float or in danger but just for the
illustration purposes let's say we want to convert this age from in danger to the float.
So we are going to use the same s type matter.
So let me just grab this age as right now I want to convert it into float.
So I am just going to posit like a float and let me just assigning to the other original column like
a page.
OK and let me just add security.
Now let's see what is the later type of individual content.
Now as of now it is already in digits six people to meet and after converting into float again it is
occupying the same space like a 64 bit.
So it may happen in memory space.
We have been reduced.
So it's still three point three plus empty.
By this age column is now float 64 bit.
So we have a one float column two category column fine digital column an object kind of column is seven.
So that is how you can do in the conversion of individual column from one day to day to another leader
type with dental x type matter and after convoys and it may happen that your memory space might reduce
or might increase also.
So depending on taking some smart move you can reduce the amount of space required to represent your
data in memory.
OK.
So that is all about that data type convert zone with Delta.
This is not a state matter.
On top of the different object.